There are many ways to run a spring boot application.
In this lesson, you will learn to run a spring boot app using MAVEN commands and the run button.
The first question you have to ask yourself is Where does the runtime start?
The entry point of your Spring Boot app is in the application Java file when you run your application.
The runtime starts here and it's the spring boot application annotation that instruments the launch
of a Spring Boot app.
Let's go through the first two MAVEN Command Spring Boot Run.
This command compiles and runs a spring boot application.
When it compiles your code, the compiled classes are going to go to the target folder and then it will
run your compiled code.
Your project should come with a maven wrapper.
We can use the maven wrapper to run Maven commands.
What I'm going to do is open up a new terminal by going to view tool Windows Terminal.
So right now our terminal points to the hello spraying folder and inside hello spraying.
We can access the maven wrapper like so.
If you're using a mac like myself, your maven command must follow a dot slash.
So now from the maven rapper, we can say maven spring boot run.
As you can see, it compiles your code into the target folder.
This is the compiled version of our Spring Java file.
And then it runs your compiled code.
Now a close equivalent to the spring boot run command would be to just press the run button.
Now you might think to yourself, Forget writing Maven commands, I'm just going to use the run button.
Not so fast.
I recommend running your code using this command.
Maven Clean Spring Boot Run.
The way this works is before starting the build, clean will remove compiled classes from the previous
build.
The ensuing goal as before will compile your code into the target folder and then the run the compiled
code.
I can use the up key to access previous terminal commands to our spring boots run command.
We will add a goal of clean.
And if you focus on the target folder as I run this command.
You'll notice that it removes the previously compiled code and then the ensuing goal will recompile
your code into target.
Beautiful.
Now the reason why I like to use Maven clean spring which run is because every now and then it's good
to start from scratch.
Sometimes I would get random bugs that were just solved by running from a fresh build.
So to recap, you learned three different ways to run a spring boot up.
Maven Spring Boot Run compiles your code into target and runs it.
The run button is a close equivalent.
Clean will remove compiled classes from the previous build.
And then Spring Boot to run will compile your code into target and run it.
Throughout this course, you'll notice I'll be using Maven Clean Spring Boot Run.